doc/source/development.rst, before:

Development
===========

With the ongoing development of openpyxl, there is occasional information
useful to assist developers.


What is suppoprted
------------------

The primary aim of openpyxl is to support reading and writing Microsoft Excel
2010 files. Where possible support for files generated by other libraries or
programs is available but this is not guaranteed.


Supporting different Python versions
------------------------------------

We have a small library of utility functions to support development for
Python 2 and 3. This is openpyxl.compat for Python and openpyxl.xml for XML
functions.


Coding style
------------

Use PEP-8 except when implementing attributes for roundtripping but always
use Python data conventions (boolean, None, etc.) Note exceptions in
docstrings.


Testing
-------

Contributions without tests will **not** be accepted.

We use pytest as the test runner with pytest-cov for coverage information and
pytest-flakes for static code analysis.

.. note ::

    In order to test on Windows you will need to manually install the relevant lxml binary.
    These can usually be downloaded from http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#lxml
    `pip install path/to/downloaded-file`


Coverage
++++++++

The goal is 100 % coverage for unit tests - data types and utility functions.
Coverage information can be obtained using

 :code:`py.test --cov openpyxl`


Organisation
++++++++++++

Tests can be at library - openpyxl/tests or preferably for unit tests at
package / module level e.g openpyxl/cell. This makes testing and getting
statistics for code under development easier:

 :code:`py.test --cov openpyxl/cell openpyxl/cell`


Checking XML
++++++++++++

Use the :code:`openpyxl.tests.helper.compare_xml` function to compare
generated and expected fragments of XML.


Schema validation
+++++++++++++++++

When working on code to generate XML it is possible to validate that the
generated XML conforms to the published specification. Note, this won't
necessarily guarantee that everything is fine but is preferable to reverse
engineering!


Microsoft Tools
+++++++++++++++

Along with the SDK, Microsoft also has a "Productivity Tool" for working with
Office OpenXML. http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=30425

It allows you to quickly inspect a whole Excel file. Unfortunately,
validation errors contain many false positives.


Contributing
------------

Contributions in the form of pull requests are always welcome. Don't forget
to add yourself to the list of authors!


Branch naming convention
------------------------

We use a "major.minor.patch" numbering system, ie. 1.8.3 Development branches
are named after "major.minor" releases. In general, API change will only
happen major releases but there will be exceptions. Always communicate API
changes to the mailing list before making them. If you are changing an API
try and an implement a fallback (with deprecation warning) for the old
behaviour.

The "default branch" is used for releases and always has changes from a
development branch merged in. It should never be the target for a pull
request.


Pull Requests
-------------

In general, pull requests should be submitted to the current, unreleased
development branch. Eg. if the current release is 1.8.x, pull requests should
be made to the 1.9 branch. Exceptions are bug fixes to released versions
which should be made to the relevant release branch and merged upstream into
development.

Please use tox to test code for different submissions **before** making a
pull request. This is especially important for picking up problems across
Python versions.


Documentation
+++++++++++++

Remember to update the documentation when adding or changing features. Check
that documentation is syntactically correct

:code:`tox -e doc`


Benchmarking
------------

Benchmarking and profiling are ongoing tasks. Contributions to these are very
welcome as we know there is a lot to do.


Memory Use
++++++++++

There is a tox profile for long-running memory benchmarks using the
`memory_utils` package

 :code:`tox -e memory`


Pympler
+++++++

As openpyxl does not include any internal memory benchmarking tools, the
python *pympler* package was used during the testing of styles to profile the
memory usage in :code:`openpyxl.reader.excel.read_style_table()`::

    # in openpyxl/reader/style.py
    from pympler import muppy, summary

    def read_style_table(xml_source):
      ...
      if cell_xfs is not None:  # ~ line 47
          initialState = summary.summarize(muppy.get_objects())  # Capture the initial state
          for index, cell_xfs_node in enumerate(cell_xfs_nodes):
             ...
             table[index] = new_style
          finalState = summary.summarize(muppy.get_objects())  # Capture the final state
          diff = summary.get_diff(initialState, finalState)  # Compare
          summary.print_(diff)


:code:`pympler.summary.print_()` prints to the console a report of object
memory usage, allowing the comparison of different methods and examination of
memory usage. A useful future development would be to construct a
benchmarking package to measure the performance of different components.

Commit message:

Add link to windows docs.

doc/source/development.rst, after:

Development
===========

With the ongoing development of openpyxl, there is occasional information
useful to assist developers.


What is suppoprted
------------------

The primary aim of openpyxl is to support reading and writing Microsoft Excel
2010 files. Where possible support for files generated by other libraries or
programs is available but this is not guaranteed.


Supporting different Python versions
------------------------------------

We have a small library of utility functions to support development for
Python 2 and 3. This is openpyxl.compat for Python and openpyxl.xml for XML
functions.


Coding style
------------

Use PEP-8 except when implementing attributes for roundtripping but always
use Python data conventions (boolean, None, etc.) Note exceptions in
docstrings.


Testing
-------

Contributions without tests will **not** be accepted.

We use pytest as the test runner with pytest-cov for coverage information and
pytest-flakes for static code analysis.

.. note ::

    In order to test on Windows you will need to manually install the relevant lxml binary.
    These can usually be downloaded from http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#lxml
    `pip install path/to/downloaded-file`


Coverage
++++++++

The goal is 100 % coverage for unit tests - data types and utility functions.
Coverage information can be obtained using

 :code:`py.test --cov openpyxl`


Organisation
++++++++++++

Tests can be at library - openpyxl/tests or preferably for unit tests at
package / module level e.g openpyxl/cell. This makes testing and getting
statistics for code under development easier:

 :code:`py.test --cov openpyxl/cell openpyxl/cell`


Checking XML
++++++++++++

Use the :code:`openpyxl.tests.helper.compare_xml` function to compare
generated and expected fragments of XML.


Schema validation
+++++++++++++++++

When working on code to generate XML it is possible to validate that the
generated XML conforms to the published specification. Note, this won't
necessarily guarantee that everything is fine but is preferable to reverse
engineering!


Microsoft Tools
+++++++++++++++

Along with the SDK, Microsoft also has a "Productivity Tool" for working with
Office OpenXML. http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=30425

It allows you to quickly inspect a whole Excel file. Unfortunately,
validation errors contain many false positives.

Please see :ref:`windows-development` for additional information on setting up and testing on Windows.


Contributing
------------

Contributions in the form of pull requests are always welcome. Don't forget
to add yourself to the list of authors!


Branch naming convention
------------------------

We use a "major.minor.patch" numbering system, ie. 1.8.3 Development branches
are named after "major.minor" releases. In general, API change will only
happen major releases but there will be exceptions. Always communicate API
changes to the mailing list before making them. If you are changing an API
try and an implement a fallback (with deprecation warning) for the old
behaviour.

The "default branch" is used for releases and always has changes from a
development branch merged in. It should never be the target for a pull
request.


Pull Requests
-------------

In general, pull requests should be submitted to the current, unreleased
development branch. Eg. if the current release is 1.8.x, pull requests should
be made to the 1.9 branch. Exceptions are bug fixes to released versions
which should be made to the relevant release branch and merged upstream into
development.

Please use tox to test code for different submissions **before** making a
pull request. This is especially important for picking up problems across
Python versions.


Documentation
+++++++++++++

Remember to update the documentation when adding or changing features. Check
that documentation is syntactically correct

:code:`tox -e doc`


Benchmarking
------------

Benchmarking and profiling are ongoing tasks. Contributions to these are very
welcome as we know there is a lot to do.


Memory Use
++++++++++

There is a tox profile for long-running memory benchmarks using the
`memory_utils` package

 :code:`tox -e memory`


Pympler
+++++++

As openpyxl does not include any internal memory benchmarking tools, the
python *pympler* package was used during the testing of styles to profile the
memory usage in :code:`openpyxl.reader.excel.read_style_table()`::

    # in openpyxl/reader/style.py
    from pympler import muppy, summary

    def read_style_table(xml_source):
      ...
      if cell_xfs is not None:  # ~ line 47
          initialState = summary.summarize(muppy.get_objects())  # Capture the initial state
          for index, cell_xfs_node in enumerate(cell_xfs_nodes):
             ...
             table[index] = new_style
          finalState = summary.summarize(muppy.get_objects())  # Capture the final state
          diff = summary.get_diff(initialState, finalState)  # Compare
          summary.print_(diff)


:code:`pympler.summary.print_()` prints to the console a report of object
memory usage, allowing the comparison of different methods and examination of
memory usage. A useful future development would be to construct a
benchmarking package to measure the performance of different components.
