doc/source/styles.rst, before:

Working with styles
===================

Introduction
------------

Styles are used to change the look of your data while displayed on screen.
They are also used to determine the number format being used for a given cell
or range of cells.

Each :class:`openpyxl.styles.Style` object is composed of many sub-styles, each controlling a
dimension of the styling.

This is what the default `Style` looks like

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import Style, PatternFill, Border, Side, Alignment, Protection, Font
>>> s = Style(font=Font(name='Calibri',
...                 size=11,
...                 bold=False,
...                 italic=False,
...                 vertAlign=None,
...                 underline='none',
...                 strike=False,
...                 color='FF000000'),
...       fill=PatternFill(fill_type=None,
...                 start_color='FFFFFFFF',
...                 end_color='FF000000'),
...       border=Border(left=Side(border_style=None,
...                                color='FF000000'),
...                      right=Side(border_style=None,
...                                 color='FF000000'),
...                      top=Side(border_style=None,
...                               color='FF000000'),
...                      bottom=Side(border_style=None,
...                                  color='FF000000'),
...                      diagonal=Side(border_style=None,
...                                    color='FF000000'),
...                      diagonal_direction=0,
...                      outline=Side(border_style=None,
...                                   color='FF000000'),
...                      vertical=Side(border_style=None,
...                                    color='FF000000'),
...                      horizontal=Side(border_style=None,
...                                     color='FF000000')),
...     alignment=Alignment(horizontal='general',
...                         vertical='bottom',
...                         text_rotation=0,
...                         wrap_text=False,
...                         shrink_to_fit=False,
...                         indent=0),
...     number_format='General',
...     protection=Protection(locked='inherit',
...                           hidden='inherit'))
>>>

Pretty big, huh ?
There is one thing to understand about openpyxl's `Styles` : they are immutable.
This means once a `Style` object has been created, it is no longer possible to
alter anything below it.

As you can see from the above box, there is a hierarchy between elements::

        Style > (Font > Color / Fill > Color / Borders > Border > Color / Alignment / NumberFormat / Protection)

So if you want to change the color of a Font, you have to redefine a Style, with a new Font, with a new Color::

>>> from openpyxl.styles import colors
>>> s = Style(font=Font(color=colors.RED))
>>> s.font.color = colors.BLUE # this will not work
>>> blue_s = Style(font=Font(color=colors.BLUE))

However, if you have a Font you want to use multiple times, you are allowed to::

>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font, Color
>>> from openpyxl.styles import colors
>>>
>>> ft = Font(color=colors.RED)
>>> s1 = Style(font=ft, number_format='0%')
>>> s2 = Style(font=ft, number_format='dd-mm-yyyy')


Copying styles
--------------

There is also a `copy()` function, which creates a new style based on another one, by **completely** replacing
sub-elements by others

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font, Style
>>>
>>> arial = Font(name='Arial', size=14)
>>> tahoma = Font(name='Tahoma')
>>> s1 = Style(font=arial, number_format='0%')
>>> s2 = s1.copy(font=tahoma)
>>> s2.font.name
'Tahoma'
>>> s2.number_format
'0%'
>>> s2.font.size # 11 (tahoma does not re-specify size, so we use the default)
11.0


This might be surprising that we do not use the previous `Font` size,
but this is not a bug, this is because of the immutable nature of styles,
if you want to alter a style, you have to re-define explicitly all the
attributes which are different from the default, even when you copy a `Style`.

Keep this in mind when working with styles and you should be fine.


Basic Font Colors
-----------------
Colors are usually RGB or aRGB hexvalues. The `colors` module contains some constants

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font
>>> from openpyxl.styles.colors import RED
>>> font = Font(color=RED)
>>> font = Font(color="FFBB00")

There is also support for legacy indexed colors as well as themes and tints

>>> from openpyxl.styles.colors import Color
>>> c = Color(indexed=32)
>>> c = Color(theme=6, tint=0.5)


Applying Styles
---------------
Styles are applied directly to cells

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>> from openpyxl.styles import Style
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>> c = ws['A1']
>>> c.style = Style()

Styles are also applied to columns and rows::

>>> col = ws.column_dimensions['A']
>>> col.style = Style()
>>> row = ws.row_dimensions[1]
>>> row.style = Style()


Edit Page Setup
-------------------
.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> ws.page_setup.orientation = ws.ORIENTATION_LANDSCAPE
>>> ws.page_setup.paperSize = ws.PAPERSIZE_TABLOID
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToHeight = 0
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToWidth = 1


Edit Print Options
-------------------
.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> ws.print_options.horizontalCentered = True
>>> ws.print_options.verticalCentered = True



Header / Footer
---------------
.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.worksheets[0]
>>>
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.text = 'My Excel Page'
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.font_size = 14
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.font_name = "Tahoma,Bold"
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.font_color = "CC3366"

# Or just
>>> ws.header_footer.right_footer.text = 'My Right Footer'


Worksheet Additional Properties
-------------------------------
These are advanced properties for particular behaviours, the most used ones are the "fitTopage" page setup property and the tabColor that define the background color of the worksheet tab.

Available properties for worksheet: "codeName", "enableFormatConditionsCalculation", "filterMode", "published", "syncHorizontal", "syncRef", "syncVertical", "transitionEvaluation", "transitionEntry", "tabColor".
Available fields for page setup properties: "autoPageBreaks", "fitToPage".
Available fields for outline properties: "applyStyles", "summaryBelow", "summaryRight", "showOutlineSymbols".

see http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/documentformat.openxml.spreadsheet.sheetproperties%28v=office.14%29.aspx_ for details.

..note::
        By default, outline properties are intitialized so you can directly modify each of their 4 attributes, while page setup properties don't.
        If you want modify the latter, you should first initialize a PageSetupPr object with the required parameters.
        Once done, they can be directly modified by the routine later if needed.


.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>> from openpyxl.worksheet.properties import WorksheetProperties, PageSetupPr
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> wsprops = ws.sheet_properties
>>> wsprops.tabColor = "1072BA"
>>> wsprops.filterMode = False
>>> wsprops.pageSetUpPr = PageSetupPr(fitToPage=True, autoPageBreaks=False)
>>> wsprops.outlinePr.summaryBelow = False
>>> wsprops.outlinePr.applyStyles = True
>>> wsprops.pageSetUpPr.autoPageBreaks = True

Commit message:

Update docs about headers and footers

doc/source/styles.rst, after:

Working with styles
===================

Introduction
------------

Styles are used to change the look of your data while displayed on screen.
They are also used to determine the number format being used for a given cell
or range of cells.

Each :class:`openpyxl.styles.Style` object is composed of many sub-styles, each controlling a
dimension of the styling.

This is what the default `Style` looks like

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import Style, PatternFill, Border, Side, Alignment, Protection, Font
>>> s = Style(font=Font(name='Calibri',
...                 size=11,
...                 bold=False,
...                 italic=False,
...                 vertAlign=None,
...                 underline='none',
...                 strike=False,
...                 color='FF000000'),
...       fill=PatternFill(fill_type=None,
...                 start_color='FFFFFFFF',
...                 end_color='FF000000'),
...       border=Border(left=Side(border_style=None,
...                                color='FF000000'),
...                      right=Side(border_style=None,
...                                 color='FF000000'),
...                      top=Side(border_style=None,
...                               color='FF000000'),
...                      bottom=Side(border_style=None,
...                                  color='FF000000'),
...                      diagonal=Side(border_style=None,
...                                    color='FF000000'),
...                      diagonal_direction=0,
...                      outline=Side(border_style=None,
...                                   color='FF000000'),
...                      vertical=Side(border_style=None,
...                                    color='FF000000'),
...                      horizontal=Side(border_style=None,
...                                     color='FF000000')),
...     alignment=Alignment(horizontal='general',
...                         vertical='bottom',
...                         text_rotation=0,
...                         wrap_text=False,
...                         shrink_to_fit=False,
...                         indent=0),
...     number_format='General',
...     protection=Protection(locked='inherit',
...                           hidden='inherit'))
>>>

Pretty big, huh ?
There is one thing to understand about openpyxl's `Styles` : they are immutable.
This means once a `Style` object has been created, it is no longer possible to
alter anything below it.

As you can see from the above box, there is a hierarchy between elements::

        Style > (Font > Color / Fill > Color / Borders > Border > Color / Alignment / NumberFormat / Protection)

So if you want to change the color of a Font, you have to redefine a Style, with a new Font, with a new Color::

>>> from openpyxl.styles import colors
>>> s = Style(font=Font(color=colors.RED))
>>> s.font.color = colors.BLUE # this will not work
>>> blue_s = Style(font=Font(color=colors.BLUE))

However, if you have a Font you want to use multiple times, you are allowed to::

>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font, Color
>>> from openpyxl.styles import colors
>>>
>>> ft = Font(color=colors.RED)
>>> s1 = Style(font=ft, number_format='0%')
>>> s2 = Style(font=ft, number_format='dd-mm-yyyy')


Copying styles
--------------

There is also a `copy()` function, which creates a new style based on another
one, by **completely** replacing sub-elements by others

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font, Style
>>>
>>> arial = Font(name='Arial', size=14)
>>> tahoma = Font(name='Tahoma')
>>> s1 = Style(font=arial, number_format='0%')
>>> s2 = s1.copy(font=tahoma)
>>> s2.font.name
'Tahoma'
>>> s2.number_format
'0%'
>>> s2.font.size # 11 (tahoma does not re-specify size, so we use the default)
11.0


This might be surprising that we do not use the previous `Font` size,
but this is not a bug, this is because of the immutable nature of styles,
if you want to alter a style, you have to re-define explicitly all the
attributes which are different from the default, even when you copy a `Style`.

Keep this in mind when working with styles and you should be fine.


Basic Font Colors
-----------------
Colors are usually RGB or aRGB hexvalues. The `colors` module contains some constants

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font
>>> from openpyxl.styles.colors import RED
>>> font = Font(color=RED)
>>> font = Font(color="FFBB00")

There is also support for legacy indexed colors as well as themes and tints

>>> from openpyxl.styles.colors import Color
>>> c = Color(indexed=32)
>>> c = Color(theme=6, tint=0.5)


Applying Styles
---------------
Styles are applied directly to cells

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>> from openpyxl.styles import Style
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>> c = ws['A1']
>>> c.style = Style()

Styles are also applied to columns and rows::

>>> col = ws.column_dimensions['A']
>>> col.style = Style()
>>> row = ws.row_dimensions[1]
>>> row.style = Style()


Edit Page Setup
-------------------
.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> ws.page_setup.orientation = ws.ORIENTATION_LANDSCAPE
>>> ws.page_setup.paperSize = ws.PAPERSIZE_TABLOID
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToHeight = 0
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToWidth = 1


Edit Print Options
-------------------
.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> ws.print_options.horizontalCentered = True
>>> ws.print_options.verticalCentered = True



Header / Footer
---------------

Headers and footers use their own formatting language. This is fully
supported when writing them but, due to the complexity and the possibility of
nesting, only partially when reading them.


.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.worksheets[0]
>>>
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.text = 'My Excel Page'
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.font_size = 14
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.font_name = "Tahoma,Bold"
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.font_color = "CC3366"

# Or just
>>> ws.header_footer.right_footer.text = 'My Right Footer'


Worksheet Additional Properties
-------------------------------

These are advanced properties for particular behaviours, the most used ones
are the "fitTopage" page setup property and the tabColor that define the
background color of the worksheet tab.

Available properties for worksheet: "codeName",
"enableFormatConditionsCalculation", "filterMode", "published",
"syncHorizontal", "syncRef", "syncVertical", "transitionEvaluation",
"transitionEntry", "tabColor". Available fields for page setup properties:
"autoPageBreaks", "fitToPage". Available fields for outline properties:
"applyStyles", "summaryBelow", "summaryRight", "showOutlineSymbols".

see http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/documentformat.openxml.spreadsheet.sheetproperties%28v=office.14%29.aspx_ for details.

..note::
        By default, outline properties are intitialized so you can directly modify each of their 4 attributes, while page setup properties don't.
        If you want modify the latter, you should first initialize a PageSetupPr object with the required parameters.
        Once done, they can be directly modified by the routine later if needed.


.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>> from openpyxl.worksheet.properties import WorksheetProperties, PageSetupPr
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> wsprops = ws.sheet_properties
>>> wsprops.tabColor = "1072BA"
>>> wsprops.filterMode = False
>>> wsprops.pageSetUpPr = PageSetupPr(fitToPage=True, autoPageBreaks=False)
>>> wsprops.outlinePr.summaryBelow = False
>>> wsprops.outlinePr.applyStyles = True
>>> wsprops.pageSetUpPr.autoPageBreaks = True
