doc/styles.rst, before:

Working with styles
===================

Introduction
------------

Styles are used to change the look of your data while displayed on screen.
They are also used to determine the number format being used for a given cell
or range of cells.

Styles can be applied to the following aspects:

   * font to set font size, color, underlining, etc.
   * fill to set a pattern or color gradient
   * border to set borders on a cell
   * cell alignment
   * protection

The following are the default values

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import PatternFill, Border, Side, Alignment, Protection, Font
>>> font = Font(name='Calibri',
...                 size=11,
...                 bold=False,
...                 italic=False,
...                 vertAlign=None,
...                 underline='none',
...                 strike=False,
...                 color='FF000000')
>>> fill = PatternFill(fill_type=None,
...                 start_color='FFFFFFFF',
...                 end_color='FF000000')
>>> border = Border(left=Side(border_style=None,
...                           color='FF000000'),
...                 right=Side(border_style=None,
...                            color='FF000000'),
...                 top=Side(border_style=None,
...                          color='FF000000'),
...                 bottom=Side(border_style=None,
...                             color='FF000000'),
...                 diagonal=Side(border_style=None,
...                               color='FF000000'),
...                 diagonal_direction=0,
...                 outline=Side(border_style=None,
...                              color='FF000000'),
...                 vertical=Side(border_style=None,
...                               color='FF000000'),
...                 horizontal=Side(border_style=None,
...                                color='FF000000')
...                )
>>> alignment=Alignment(horizontal='general',
...                     vertical='bottom',
...                     text_rotation=0,
...                     wrap_text=False,
...                     shrink_to_fit=False,
...                     indent=0)
>>> number_format = 'General'
>>> protection = Protection(locked=True,
...                         hidden=False)
>>>

Styles are shared between objects and once they have been assigned they
cannot be changed. This stops unwanted side-effects such as changing the
style for lots of cells when instead of only one.

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import colors
>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font, Color
>>> from openpyxl.styles import colors
>>> from openpyxl import Workbook
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> a1 = ws['A1']
>>> d4 = ws['D4']
>>> ft = Font(color=colors.RED)
>>> a1.font = ft
>>> d4.font = ft
>>>
>>> a1.font.italic = True # is not allowed # doctest: +SKIP
>>>
>>> # If you want to change the color of a Font, you need to reassign it::
>>>
>>> a1.font = Font(color=colors.RED, italic=True) # the change only affects A1


Copying styles
--------------

Styles can also be copied

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font
>>>
>>> ft1 = Font(name='Arial', size=14)
>>> ft2 = ft1.copy(name="Tahoma")
>>> ft1.name
'Arial'
>>> ft2.name
'Tahoma'
>>> ft2.size # copied from the
14.0


Basic Font Colors
-----------------
Colors are usually RGB or aRGB hexvalues. The `colors` module contains some constants

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font
>>> from openpyxl.styles.colors import RED
>>> font = Font(color=RED)
>>> font = Font(color="FFBB00")

There is also support for legacy indexed colors as well as themes and tints

>>> from openpyxl.styles.colors import Color
>>> c = Color(indexed=32)
>>> c = Color(theme=6, tint=0.5)


Applying Styles
---------------
Styles are applied directly to cells

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font, Fill
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>> c = ws['A1']
>>> c.font = Font(size=12)

Styles can also applied to columns and rows but note that this applies only
to cells created (in Excel) after the file is closed. If you want to apply
styles to entire rows and columns then you must apply the style to each cell
yourself. This is a restriction of the file format::

>>> col = ws.column_dimensions['A']
>>> col.font = Font(bold=True)
>>> row = ws.row_dimensions[1]
>>> row.font = Font(underline="single")


Edit Page Setup
-------------------
.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> ws.page_setup.orientation = ws.ORIENTATION_LANDSCAPE
>>> ws.page_setup.paperSize = ws.PAPERSIZE_TABLOID
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToHeight = 0
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToWidth = 1


Edit Print Options
-------------------
.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> ws.print_options.horizontalCentered = True
>>> ws.print_options.verticalCentered = True



Header / Footer
---------------

Headers and footers use their own formatting language. This is fully
supported when writing them but, due to the complexity and the possibility of
nesting, only partially when reading them.


.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.worksheets[0]
>>>
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.text = 'My Excel Page'
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.font_size = 14
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.font_name = "Tahoma,Bold"
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.font_color = "CC3366"

# Or just
>>> ws.header_footer.right_footer.text = 'My Right Footer'


Worksheet Additional Properties
-------------------------------

These are advanced properties for particular behaviours, the most used ones
are the "fitTopage" page setup property and the tabColor that define the
background color of the worksheet tab.

Available properties for worksheet: "codeName",
"enableFormatConditionsCalculation", "filterMode", "published",
"syncHorizontal", "syncRef", "syncVertical", "transitionEvaluation",
"transitionEntry", "tabColor". Available fields for page setup properties:
"autoPageBreaks", "fitToPage". Available fields for outline properties:
"applyStyles", "summaryBelow", "summaryRight", "showOutlineSymbols".

see http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/documentformat.openxml.spreadsheet.sheetproperties%28v=office.14%29.aspx_ for details.

..note::
        By default, outline properties are intitialized so you can directly modify each of their 4 attributes, while page setup properties don't.
        If you want modify the latter, you should first initialize a PageSetupPr object with the required parameters.
        Once done, they can be directly modified by the routine later if needed.


.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>> from openpyxl.worksheet.properties import WorksheetProperties, PageSetupPr
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> wsprops = ws.sheet_properties
>>> wsprops.tabColor = "1072BA"
>>> wsprops.filterMode = False
>>> wsprops.pageSetUpPr = PageSetupPr(fitToPage=True, autoPageBreaks=False)
>>> wsprops.outlinePr.summaryBelow = False
>>> wsprops.outlinePr.applyStyles = True
>>> wsprops.pageSetUpPr.autoPageBreaks = True

Commit message:

added autopagebreaks to worksheet page_setup to keep the same logic for all pageSetupPr worksheet additional properties

doc/styles.rst, after:

Working with styles
===================

Introduction
------------

Styles are used to change the look of your data while displayed on screen.
They are also used to determine the number format being used for a given cell
or range of cells.

Styles can be applied to the following aspects:

   * font to set font size, color, underlining, etc.
   * fill to set a pattern or color gradient
   * border to set borders on a cell
   * cell alignment
   * protection

The following are the default values

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import PatternFill, Border, Side, Alignment, Protection, Font
>>> font = Font(name='Calibri',
...                 size=11,
...                 bold=False,
...                 italic=False,
...                 vertAlign=None,
...                 underline='none',
...                 strike=False,
...                 color='FF000000')
>>> fill = PatternFill(fill_type=None,
...                 start_color='FFFFFFFF',
...                 end_color='FF000000')
>>> border = Border(left=Side(border_style=None,
...                           color='FF000000'),
...                 right=Side(border_style=None,
...                            color='FF000000'),
...                 top=Side(border_style=None,
...                          color='FF000000'),
...                 bottom=Side(border_style=None,
...                             color='FF000000'),
...                 diagonal=Side(border_style=None,
...                               color='FF000000'),
...                 diagonal_direction=0,
...                 outline=Side(border_style=None,
...                              color='FF000000'),
...                 vertical=Side(border_style=None,
...                               color='FF000000'),
...                 horizontal=Side(border_style=None,
...                                color='FF000000')
...                )
>>> alignment=Alignment(horizontal='general',
...                     vertical='bottom',
...                     text_rotation=0,
...                     wrap_text=False,
...                     shrink_to_fit=False,
...                     indent=0)
>>> number_format = 'General'
>>> protection = Protection(locked=True,
...                         hidden=False)
>>>

Styles are shared between objects and once they have been assigned they
cannot be changed. This stops unwanted side-effects such as changing the
style for lots of cells when instead of only one.

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import colors
>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font, Color
>>> from openpyxl.styles import colors
>>> from openpyxl import Workbook
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> a1 = ws['A1']
>>> d4 = ws['D4']
>>> ft = Font(color=colors.RED)
>>> a1.font = ft
>>> d4.font = ft
>>>
>>> a1.font.italic = True # is not allowed # doctest: +SKIP
>>>
>>> # If you want to change the color of a Font, you need to reassign it::
>>>
>>> a1.font = Font(color=colors.RED, italic=True) # the change only affects A1


Copying styles
--------------

Styles can also be copied

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font
>>>
>>> ft1 = Font(name='Arial', size=14)
>>> ft2 = ft1.copy(name="Tahoma")
>>> ft1.name
'Arial'
>>> ft2.name
'Tahoma'
>>> ft2.size # copied from the
14.0


Basic Font Colors
-----------------
Colors are usually RGB or aRGB hexvalues. The `colors` module contains some constants

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font
>>> from openpyxl.styles.colors import RED
>>> font = Font(color=RED)
>>> font = Font(color="FFBB00")

There is also support for legacy indexed colors as well as themes and tints

>>> from openpyxl.styles.colors import Color
>>> c = Color(indexed=32)
>>> c = Color(theme=6, tint=0.5)


Applying Styles
---------------
Styles are applied directly to cells

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>> from openpyxl.styles import Font, Fill
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>> c = ws['A1']
>>> c.font = Font(size=12)

Styles can also applied to columns and rows but note that this applies only
to cells created (in Excel) after the file is closed. If you want to apply
styles to entire rows and columns then you must apply the style to each cell
yourself. This is a restriction of the file format::

>>> col = ws.column_dimensions['A']
>>> col.font = Font(bold=True)
>>> row = ws.row_dimensions[1]
>>> row.font = Font(underline="single")


Edit Page Setup
-------------------
This element include also the page setup additional properties fitToPage and autoPageBreaks.
These 2 properties belong to Worksheet Additional Properties, as they concerns the page setup of the worksheet, 
we found logical to treat them through this element.


.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> ws.page_setup.orientation = ws.ORIENTATION_LANDSCAPE
>>> ws.page_setup.paperSize = ws.PAPERSIZE_TABLOID
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToHeight = 0
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToWidth = 1
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToPage = 1
>>> ws.page_setup.autoPageBreaks = 0


Edit Print Options
-------------------
.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> ws.print_options.horizontalCentered = True
>>> ws.print_options.verticalCentered = True


Header / Footer
---------------

Headers and footers use their own formatting language. This is fully
supported when writing them but, due to the complexity and the possibility of
nesting, only partially when reading them.


.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.worksheets[0]
>>>
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.text = 'My Excel Page'
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.font_size = 14
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.font_name = "Tahoma,Bold"
>>> ws.header_footer.center_header.font_color = "CC3366"

# Or just
>>> ws.header_footer.right_footer.text = 'My Right Footer'


Worksheet Additional Properties
-------------------------------

These are advanced properties for particular behaviours, the most used ones
are the "fitTopage" page setup property and the tabColor that define the
background color of the worksheet tab. 

The first one can be modified directly through the worksheet page_setup element.

Available properties for worksheet: "codeName",
"enableFormatConditionsCalculation", "filterMode", "published",
"syncHorizontal", "syncRef", "syncVertical", "transitionEvaluation",
"transitionEntry", "tabColor". Available fields for outline properties:
"applyStyles", "summaryBelow", "summaryRight", "showOutlineSymbols".

see http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/documentformat.openxml.spreadsheet.sheetproperties%28v=office.14%29.aspx_ for details.

..note::
        By default, outline properties are intitialized so you can directly modify each of their 4 attributes, while page setup properties don't.
        That's why these has been directly added to the page_setup element of the worksheet (see above).


.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl.workbook import Workbook
>>> from openpyxl.worksheet.properties import WorksheetProperties
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> wsprops = ws.sheet_properties
>>> wsprops.tabColor = "1072BA"
>>> wsprops.filterMode = False
>>> wsprops.outlinePr.summaryBelow = False
>>> wsprops.outlinePr.applyStyles = True
